Unit 3 Study Guide 
==================
 
Key terms
---------
- **Meno Paradox, a.k.a. "the debater's argument"**
    * The Meno's paradox arises out an attempt to define what virtue is.
    * It is tried to be determined whether or not virtue can be taught or not.
    * You can't search for something that you don't know
    * Because if you don't cknow what it is, how can you search for it
    * If you already know something, you wouldn't search for it.
    * It's a paradox beacuse you are suppose to already know something, but if you don't know it how are you suppose to search for it
    * How did you ever know you had your keys in your right pocket to begin with if you didn't know it.
    * It is un-necessary or impossible because if you know it you don't need to know it, other 
    * Knowledge is impossible or un-necessary
- **Recollection**
    * Recollection is learning is recalling from within or from what you already know
    * You don't pick up anything new 
    * This is denying that teaching can actually happen
- **Pyrrhonism**
    * A school of skepticism, the other school is the acedemics
    * Say something about the nature of skepticism
    * Modern theories deny all knowledge is possible
    * Pyrrhonism denies that complete knowledge is possible
        - But concedes that some knowledge is possible
- **4 Psychological States From "The Divided Line" in Plato's Republic**
    * 4 States
        - **Visible Realms**
            * Imagination
            * Folk Wisdom or Confidence
        - **Intelligible Realm**
            * Thought or Systematic Knowing
            * Understanding - _actually grasps the forms_
    * People in cave are in visble realm, 
        - Outside cave are in intelligble realm
        - The visible realm doesn't appeal to the forms at all
        - People staring just at shadows are simply in eralm of imaginations
        - Folk wisdom have knowledge of items in cave, but do not undestand their just in cave
        - They need to know there is more out there
- **States of mind in Aristotle, especially technical expertise (techne), practical judgment (phronesis), systematic or scientific thinking (episteme)** (oct 8)
    * 5 States of Mind:
        - Techne: Professional Knowledge, knowledge of a craftsman, technical expertise, craft or skill
        - Phronesis: Practical Wisdom, ability to get things done in world
        - Episteme: Systematic knowledge, think about a **particular** area, scientific knowledge
        - Sophia/Wisdom: The grap of necessary truths, or what cannot be otherwise
        - Insight/Nous: Direct grasp of original /starting points (arche)
- **Subjectivism versus Intellectualism**
    * Subjectivism:
        - Protagoros is the origin
        - Said there are two people eating a meal, one healty, one is sick
        - Food is terrible , food is great
        - Both are correct, food is both good/terrible because all knowledge from perspective of person making knowledge claim
        - He will tech us to taste thing as a healthy person as much as possible
        - Tastebuds of healthy person reflect majority of people
        - Healthy people and sick people are both speaking the truth
    * Intellectualism:
        - Plato is the origin
        - Wants to say sick person is wrong
        - Knowledge comes from the forms
        - How are the forms known, that's why its called intellectualism
Short-answer questions
----------------------
- What is the theory of knowledge established in Meno? 
    * **Recollection** is the theory of knowledge developed in the meno.
    * Recollection posits that wisdom is innate and recollected through the soul via the path of proper inquiry.
    * Knowledge as Dialectic impregnability
    * Knowledge is systematic knowing.

- How is knowledge distinguished from true belief in Meno?  
    * Knowledge is given to use by the gos
    * We get to it by way ot dialectic impregnability
    * Reasoning as a path to knowledge.

- Identify three features of the pre-philosophical theory of knowledge.

- Explain how those features are challenged or refined by Plato's and/or Aristotle's theories of knowledge. 

- Explain the four reasons to suspend judgment according to Sextus Empiricus.  

- What is the Two Worlds Theory and what are its consequences? What evidence suggests that Plato subscribed to it? What evidence suggests that he did not?  
    * The Two Worlds Theory states that objects of knowledge are distinct from objects of belief
    * This rejects meno's account of knowledge
    * Skepticism about limits of human knowledge
    * Sensible realm is distinct from the intelligble realm
    * Only belief/opinion possible in sensible realm
    * Knowleg eonly possible in intelligble realm or "Platonic intellectualism"

- What positions is Aristotle rejecting in his efforts to save perception? 
    * Rejects Plantonic Intelleticuatlism
    * Saves knowledge in perception
    * Aims to vindicate actual practice even more than Plato
    * Saves the common sense
    * No doubts that knowledge exist, question becomes, how do we delmit it
- How does Aristotle defend the truth-value of perception? 
    
