Unit 5 Study Guide 

 
Key terms: 
Socratic integrity: intellectual and moral 
craft versus knack (in Plato) 
craft versus virtue (in Aristotle) 
hedonism (according to Polus) 
admirable 
shameful 
Epicureanism about pleasure  
Stoicism about pleasure 
Conventional defense of justice 
The function argument 
Virtue according to Aristotle: intellectual virtue and character virtue 
Doctrine of the Mean: intermediate in the object versus intermediate relative 
to us (give examples for each) 
Aristotle's three criteria for determining happiness 
 
 
Short Answer Questions: 
 
Why might someone believe that Socrates shows too much courage in small affairs 
and not enough in large ones? Provide evidence from Socrates's for each 
assessment. In light of the preponderance of evidence, what do you think about the 
way that Socrates lived and died? 
 
Explain Socrates's two arguments for why he should not flee his punishment. Do you 
think that Socrates made the right decision? Why or why not?  
 
Explain the two dominant views about the relationship between intellectual 
integrity and moral integrity in the figure of Socrates. Provide at least one piece of 
evidence to support each view. What do you think is the correct answer? Why? 
 
According to Socrates, Polus holds two conflicting views about injustice. What are 
these views and how to they conflict with each other? 
 
Explain three views about whether it is possible to be both happy and unjust.  
 
How are Plato and Aristotle's views about happiness similar? How are they 
different? Which one do you think is more correct? Why? 
 
Explain either Plato or Aristotle's criticism of hedonism. Then explain the Epicurean 
view of hedonism.  Which one do you think is more correct? Why? 
 
How does Polemarchus defend the just life? How does Socrates undermine this 
definition?  
 
Why does Aristotle think the virtues lead to a flourishing life? 
 
Critically assess Socrates's criticism of Thrasymachus definition of justice. 
 
Explain Aristotle's definition of virtue. Explain the controversy about each premise. 
In what ways can an agent fail to be fully virtuous? Give an example of each way. 